- # Opening Statement
  - ## Opening
    "Person" is the name we give to the complex emergent phenomenon generated by the underlying physical structures of the human brain. To pretend otherwise is to strain one's imagination and force one to adopt a position that is both unreasonable and unintuitive.
    
    At times, it's possible to over-intellectualize things to the point of absurdity. Like a painter taking a step back to look at his entire canvas, or a composer putting down his pen to play and listen to what he’s crafted so far, it's good to occasionally take a step back and explore our intuitions to ensure sure we haven’t strayed too far from what is reasonable and real.
  - ## Positive Argument
    If we have a clear and unambiguous ending for a thing, such as a person's life, then why not investigate that ending to see if we can get any hints as to how it begins?
    
    Let's ask ourselves, when do we consider a human person no longer a human person, but just a human body? Is it after their corpse fully decomposes? Is it when their heart stops beating? Is it when they lose a limb? Of course, we all know the answer to this question - it's when the brain loses the ability to host the mind.
    
    We *could* consider, is it truly the brain that’s so special? Of course it is, there can be no other answer. If I replace your arm with a bionic prosthetic, are you still a person? What about both arms? What about your heart? Or how about your eyes and ears?
    
    If you awoke in a mad scientist's laboratory and he was going to separate your head from your body, but only had the technology to keep one of these things alive, would you choose your body or your head? Anyone who's played Wolfenstein 2 will know the  answer to that question.
    
    Really, though, deep down, we all know the answer to that question - replacing a person's head, or brain, would not only fundamentally alter who they are, destroying it would change the very nature of what they are, and turn them into something that's not quite a human person.
    
    Even without mad scientist hypotheticals, we can look to what real world neuro-degenerative diseases do to a person, and how those around that person respond. What is more devastating than to lose a person we love to the horrors of dementia? How many times have you heard a complaint from someone that a parent or grandparent truly died long ago, yet their body still remains alive?
    
    It's plainly obvious that a sufficiently developed brain hosts a uniquely human mind, and **this** is the thing that makes us who we are, and grants us the same personhood that we recognize in others. It is the thing we cherish most, and it is the thing we try to protect when we speak of morality and law.
  - ## Lila's Arguments
    In this debate, Lila is going to bounce between a lot of different words in order to try and force your intuitions to stray from where they would be otherwise. She'll casually swap words like "child," "fetus," "embryo," "human," and "person" in order to confuse and obscure; but make no mistake, this confusion is not by accident.
    
    She'll try to say that an embryo is not simply an embryo, but a *human* embryo, as though the answer to the beginning of life was always hidden in a Marriam-Webster dictionary, waiting for someone to read it. I have a feeling that if the answer were that simple, we would have solved this debate a long time ago.
    
    I will remind the audience as well, that the potential of a thing is not the thing itself. The human embryo, were it to have some features that were worth moral protection, would be worth protecting, in the present, all on its own. Instead, constant allusions will be made to the "future" of the embryo. If anything, I treat this as an immediate concession that the embryo is indeed without moral worth, which is why she needs so desperately to invoke the future of the thing to apply any moral value to it at all.
    
    Lila will argue that a person begins at the instantaneous moment of conception, as though conception were a single moment in time. What is she even defining conception as? Is it the moment the egg recognizes the sperm to permit entry? Is it when the egg no longer permits the entry of any other sperm? Is it when membrane fusion has fully finished? Is it when the first set of chromosomes make copies and divide into pairs? "Conception" is just as much a multi-stage process as "pregnancy," and to pretend as though there is one spark of a moment that defines the entirety of conception is to scientifically misunderstand the process.
    
    Lila will argue that unique DNA is what makes us human, but for some reason this does not apply to hair or skin or any other cell in the human body. She will say that a zygote with its own DNA can go on to develop to become its own human, but what of identical twins that split from the same zygote to become two? Does Lila consider identical twins two halves of the same soul or mind? Are they each their own person? Did the death of one person give way to two?
    
    Lila will make arguments relating to law, but why? It was only a few years ago that abortions were more widely permitted in the United States, certainly Lila was no fan of the law back then. I've heard her make reference to the 14th amendment and the guarantee of equal protections, but why does she only consider those protections with regards to the rights of the fetus while completely ignoring the rights of the pregnant woman; and all this while ignoring the first three words of the 14th amendment, which are: "All persons born".
  - ## Problems
    Think about the kind of world Lila's positions would commit us to.
    
    We would need identities, legal documentations and protections for every single newly conceived zygote.
    
    Due to the high rate of natural miscarriage, every single conception would need to be registered at a local government office for tracking. If a zygote is not eventually delivered as a human baby, a criminal investigation should be required to determine the cause of death. Why wouldn't it be, unless we're admitting that a zygote is worth less than a baby outside the womb?
    
    The CDC estimates about a million miscarriages a year occur in the United States. Forget child protective services, we'd need a fetal protective services just to keep track of the massive loss of life already occurring under Lila's framework. 
    
    Also, consider that Lila is demanding we place a higher burden on a raped child than we would on an adult attempting murder. Even in the case of attempted murder, we never demand the assailant donate organs from their own body to their victim in order to sustain the victim's life, yet, for some reason we would make this same demand of a young girl who's committed no crime? Far from mandating parents to donate blood or tissue to their children, we actually allow Jehova's Witnesses to bar their children from receiving even blood donations; yet in Lila's world, we would force mothers to commit to donating 9 months of their own body to an entity that hasn't yet even developed the capacity for thought?
  - ## Religious
    In Scooby Doo, how is it that a gang of meddling kids and their talking dog always seem to get the best of the monsters they encounter? It's because, once the mask is lifted, the monster is not a monster at all, it's simply a person masquerading as such. Lila's arguments against abortion are very much the same: her worldview is entirely informed by her religion, and the "mask" of logic is only applied after-the-fact to sway those who would otherwise be unconvinced by religious arguments.
    
    Think; if abortion were, as Lila would have you believe, the crime of infanticide, of murdering an innocent baby child, one would imagine she would be compelling us to do everything within our power to limit the amount of abortions that happen. And yet Lila is a relentless advocate for the very same behaviors that tend to produce the most amount of unwanted pregnancy! Lila believes in abstinence-only education, claims that contraception is immoral, and thinks that even forms of sex outside of penis-in-vagina intercourse are immoral as well. Lila believes every single time two people come together, it should be with procreation in mind, as sex was only designed by God for a husband and a wife to conceive. Odd that God decided to add an "orgasm" button for women that's almost impossible for a man to stimulate solely through intercourse, but I digress.
    
    There is no way to collectively rationalize all of these positions unless one accepts that her positions on these matters are simply entirely informed by her religion. Every position related to sex, contraception, children and, yes, abortion, are ultimately grounded in her religious beliefs. Her secular argument for a pro-life position is nothing more than a monster in disguise.
  - ## Conclusion
    We live in a Democratic society where we must have tolerance for some differences in beliefs. There are many perspectives that exist in this country that disagree with one another, but, at the end of the day, we all live must live under the same set of laws.
    
    In my worldview, the abortion question is a simple, one-sided equation. In Lila's worldview, it is a balancing act.
    
    On one side of this equation, the harm is inarguable - pregnancy represents a severe injury against a woman's autonomy, as well as her physical and mental health. It requires lifestyle changes, introduces sometimes fatal medical complications and forces a physical burden to be endured for months while a woman's body is used to gestate a growing fetus. Even if one doesn't fully agree with my position, one must acknowledge that there is legitimate, substantial disagreement over when a fetus becomes a person. When clear and obvious harms exist on one side, opposite of the hypothetical and religious harms on the other, the only collective moral decision we can make is to preserve in law a woman's right to choose.
- # Questions for Cross-Exam
  - 1. You claim to be able to argue this topic from a rational, secular perspective, so I would ask you, what would it take to change your mind on this topic?
    - 1. If nothing could change your mind on it, it is a religious viewpoint, and should be discarded by non-religious people.
    - 2. If your mind could be changed on this topic, what needs to be demonstrated for you to change it?
  - 2. Should women who have a high chance of miscarriage be banned from conceiving?
    - 1. What % should that be? At 50%, it seems obvious that a woman shouldn't be allowed to even try to conceive. Should sex be illegal for these people?
    - 2. If you say no, is there any other behavior you can think of where we would accept some % of totally avoidable child death occurring? If two parents were having sex in bed knowing their child was sleeping underneath, and there was some % chance of the bed falling on their child and killing it, would you ever be okay with the parents having sex? What makes this different?
  - 3. Should we be criminally investigating, and, ultimately, charging with crimes anyone who miscarriages due to negligence?
    - 1. Should all women who are engaged in sex be treating their body as though it could be pregnant, to avoid potential miscarriages, or else face potential manslaughter charges if they miscarry? Should all women engaged in sex essentially be prohibited from things like drinking alcohol?
  - 4. If a mother is pregnant with a baby, and there is a 40% chance the mother dies during delivery, should the mother be allowed to have an abortion, or forced to carry the child to term?
    - 1. If no, wow, that's a big bullet to bite.
    - 2. If yes, why? We would never allow someone to kill one baby to save another in the real world to harvest their organs. What's different, or what's changed?
  - 5. Should we ban all IVF?
  - 6. Should you be legally mandated to donate blood or organs to your child if they're sick or dying?
    - 1. If yes, should that extend to people who prohibit their children from receiving blood from others, like Jehova's Witnesses?
    - 2. If no, why no blood, but yes to the woman's womb?
  - 7. How do you reconcile with the lack of anti-abortion arguments in the Bible, and the passages that seem to condone some forms of abortion or treat the fetus as less than a full child’s life?
- # Analogies and Studies
  - 1. McDonald's, for conception/conscious/sleeping/death.
  - 2. Bear, for difference in "acknowledge" vs "consent".
  - 3. "Pregnancy wand" for self-defense.
- # Arguments
  - ## Ontological
    - ### A Fetus is Not a Person
      - #### Arguments
        A "person" is the name given to the emergent conscious experience of the underlying physical structures of the brain. There are a number of intuitive things that point to this being the case:
        - 1. We mark "death" as the point in which a conscious experience can no longer emerge from any underlying structures. We should mark life as the same thing.
        - 2. The brain is nearly-universally regarded as the defining thing that makes us who we are.
          - 1. If our brains were transplanted into another body, we would follow the brain, not our body.
          - 2. Any other part of our body could theoretically be replaced, and we would still be the same person, but this would not apply to the brain.
          - 3. The brain contains many things that are key parts of our personality, such as our temperaments, memories and higher reasoning processes.
        - 3. Fertilization is not a single, instantaneous process.
          - 1. When is considered the moment of "conception"? Some would say that to "conceive" refers to the act of having sex. Conception itself is a multi-stage process.
        
        Lila's position here is not grounded in logic, it is grounded completely in a Christian worldview. You could knock down every single logical argument for her position and she would still be just as strongly committed to her pro-life stance.
      - #### Common Counter-Arguments
        Personhood begins at the moment of conception, as that is when a unique genome is formed.
        - 1. Identical, or *monozygotic*, twins form from the same embryo. Does that mean a human died, and instantly gave birth to two other humans with identical DNA?
        - 2. Dicephalic parapagus twins contain two heads. Should this be considered as a single person? If you'd consider them multiple people, then would you make the same consideration if you duplicated any other organs in the body?
        - 3. What about faulty genetic material? If one was born without arm, surely you couldn't simply murder that person, yes? What about if one was born without a head, but could be kept alive on life support indefinitely, is that a morally required thing to do?
        
        Conception begins the potentiality of life. If left to develop, it will become a person.
        - 1. Potential is not the same thing as the thing itself, ever.
        - 2. If the potential for life is important, then a sperm and an egg both have the potential for life as well.
        - 3. The baby will not just incidentally develop in the optimal, healthy way once it's in the womb. The mother has to maintain a different lifestyle and abstain from certain behaviors in order to give birth to a healthy baby.
        - 4. This argument, if anything, points even stronger towards zygotes not having moral consideration because it implies they will develop some feature later on that will grant it moral consideration.
        
        Science tells us that life begins at the moment of conception.
        - 1. Science cannot tell us when we are granted "personhood," as that is a legal and ethical concept. Science can inform our understanding of what constitutes "personhood" but it can never define for us anything in the realm of "oughts."
        - 2. Science doesn't tell us anything about when a person is old enough to sign a contract, old enough to be euthanized, old enough to drive a car or old enough to commit crimes.
        
        If one can kill a fetus, one can kill a sleeping or unconscious person.
        - 1. There is a "person" to speak of, whose expressed (or assumed) will we are violating.
        - 2. Just because the "lights are off" in the building doesn't mean the building has reverted to its building materials.
        
        What about certain profoundly disabled people who seem to be doing okay missing large sections of their brain?
        - 1. Jaxon Buell is often brought up, but it's clear that this child [was never exhibiting](https://youtu.be/8AXkUr6Owy8?t=65) higher level brain functions and likely lacked the capability to ever develop them.
          - 1. In fact, the parts of the brain necessary to develop said conscious experience don't even develop in someone with anencephaly. Jaxon Buell was born with Microhydrancephaly, a subset of anencephaly.
        - 2. Noah Wall was brought up, but he was simply a child born with Myelomemingocele, the most extreme form of Spina Bifida. This prevents CSF from reaching the subarachnoid space for reabsorption, leading to excess fluid that leaks and causes pressure against the brain.
        
        People are "persons" because they have souls given to them by God.
        - 1. When does the "soul" enter the body? In Genesis, it's when God "breathes" life in Adam, implying it's after birth.
        - 2. Did Neanderthals have souls? If we have some Neanderthal DNA in us, were humans that had Neanderthal parents only partially imbued with a soul?
        - 3. What about the identical twin problem?
  - ## Biblical
    - ### Passages For Abortion
      - [Numbers 5:11-31](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Numbers%205&version=NIV) lays out a test to see if a pregnant woman was adulterous. If she is, a priest will have her drink water that will induce an abortion.
      - [Exodues 21:22](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Exodus%2021&version=KJV) speaks of two men getting into a fight, and incidentally hurt a woman, forcing a miscarriage. The penalty is only for a sum of money to be paid to the woman's husband.
    - ### Passages Against Abortion
      - [Jeremiah 1:4-5](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Jeremiah%201&version=NIV) is often cited, but it says, literally, "before I formed you in the womb I knew you." This is not talking about a zygote, this is talking about a soul.
      - [Psalm 139:13-16](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Psalm%20139&version=NIV) is often cited as it talks about being "knit...together in my mother's womb," but in the next sentence it talks about being "woven together in the depths of the earth." This language is metaphorical, not literal, and not instructive of any laws.
- # Ethical Intuitions
  - ## Our Intuitions
    - Most people don't seem to want to jail women for abortions.
    - Most people won't feel a tragedy over the death of an embryo.
    - Is anti-abortion violence acceptable? Could you kill an abortion doctor?
    - Are you allowed to abort one twin to save the other? In Lila's world, wouldn't this be completely immoral?
- # Legal Obligations
  - ## Total Society Restructure
    We would have to restructure so much of society, legally, in completely and totally unintuitive ways.
    - Legal names, dates of conception, and birth certificates would need to now be provided for every single pregnancy.
    - Every pregnancy would immediately need to be registered for tracking by the government.
    - Every single miscarriage would likely require some sort of criminal investigation. Similar to how parents are referred to CPS if their children appear unhealthy, parents must be referred to an FPS(???) if their fetus appears unhealthy.
    - Mothers who drink or smoke before they find out they're pregnant should likely need to be charged with criminal neglect.
    - People should be temporarily sterilized from birth until given a license so they can responsibility attempt to procreate. All forms of premarital sex should be strictly controlled and heavily scrutinized.
    - ### Similar Problems
      - Should you be legally mandated to donate your kidney to your child?
        - Shouldn't parents be forced to at least allow their children to receive blood from others? Religious people who disallow this must be evil, yes?
      - Should people who commit crimes against others be mandated to donate/give (non-lethal) bodily donations to them to make them whole again?
- # Lila's Commitments
  - ## Contradictory Positions
    - Lila is opposed to contraception, despite it preventing unwanted pregnancies. (FACT CHECK)
      - She has a podcast with Dr. Janet Smith on her [podcast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8xHGy2Y0SSo)
    - Lila often brings up that children who weren't aborted are happy to be alive today. Are they happy about *every* circumstance that brought about their existence? What about if their mother was raped?
  - ## Unsatisfactory Problems
    - Should women who have a high % chance of miscarriage be banned from conceiving? What should that % be, where we accept some level of infanticide just for women to attempt to get pregnant?
    - Should we register social security numbers, insurance, names, etc...from the moment of conception for fetus'?
    - Do we need a criminal investigation every single time there's a miscarriage?
    - If the chance of the mother dying in a risky pregnancy is less than 50%, should the abortion be considered both morally and legally wrong?
    - Do we ban all IVF?
  - ## Problematic Behavior
    - Lila supports "justice for the [DC Five](https://www.cnn.com/2022/04/01/us/fetuses-found-dc-home)," which are simply five fetus' that a group of activists broke into an abortion clinic and stole, and are arbitrarily claiming were "late term abortions," demanding autopsies for said remains with no evidence as to their age.
    - A writer on Lila's website, Mary James, [posted a blog](https://www.liveaction.org/news/baby-charlie-lived-two-hours-after-birth-but-his-life-shares-that-every-child-is-precious) about how she delivered a baby, knowing it would suffer and die almost immediately, and watched it suffer before it finally died 2 hours later.
- # Notes
  - Up to 1-2 million families wanting to adopt but they "can't"
  - 30,000 women go into ER because of abortion pills every year
  - Legal abortions kill women, Tanya Reeves
  - Turnaway Study on 95% of women having abortions + responses
  - Doctor Anthony Levatino worked with lots of high-risk pregnancies, did 0 abortions to save the mother's life
  - Lila's organization supports certain policies (Live Action)
  - NIH Research says 1/3 women experience a highly stressful or potentially traumatic birth
  - Scott Peterson Murder?
  - ## Bad Research
    - [Deaths associated with pregnancy outcome: a record linkage study of low income women](https://www.afterabortion.org/research/DeathsAssociatedWithAbortion.pdf)
      - Limitations
        - "An important limitation in our study is that we were not provided with any information regarding race, marital status, and parity."
        - "Screening for aberrant, indeterminate, and out-of-scope data resulted in the elimination of 21,415 cases (419 deaths) for the following reasons: ...(4) reported age below 13 or above 49 at the time of their first pregnancy event."
        - According to Table 2, the best surviving group of women were in column 3, who had an abortion, followed by a successful delivery, then the next was by women who had a delivery, followed by an abortion, and then, finally, women who are only delivered, with no abortion.
        - In the age stratification section of this study on Table 5, ages 13-19 are grouped together, obfuscating potential benefits of abortion for very young women.
      - Takeaway
        - This study appears to be motivated towards a pro-life stance. The analysis in the Discussion section completely ignores that the best two surviving groups are those who had a delivery,, then abortion, or an abortion, then a delivery.
      - The lead researcher of this study, David Reardon, is an electrical engineer and anti-abortion activist who founded the Elliot institute, an anti-abortion advocacy group.
        - He received a Ph.D. from Pacific Western University, an unaccredited school in Hawaii, which closed in May 2006
      - The Southern Medical Journal has an impact factor of less than 1.
    - [Fatal flaws in a recent meta-analysis on abortion and mental health](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3646711/)
      - Big 2013 review by Julia R Steinberg et al. published in Contraception detailing the errors of prior studies attempting to associate abortion with negative mental health outcomes.
    - [The Turnaway Study: A Case of Self-Correction in Science Upended by Political Motivation and Unvetted Findings](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9247501/)
      - 2022 study in Frontier Psychology by Priscilla Coleman. Was eventually [retracted](https://medicalxpress.com/news/2023-01-retracted-anti-abortion-paper-undisclosed-conflicts.html) due to the four peer-reviewers and editor involved not disclosing their affiliation with the Charlotte Lozier Institute, which is a pro-life information organization.
      - The lead author was involved in a [response](https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/psychology/articles/10.3389/fpsyg.2022.1003116/full) to Coleman's review, which was published before Coleman's review was retracted.
    - [Women’s Mental Health and Well-being 5 Years After Receiving or Being Denied an Abortion](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamapsychiatry/fullarticle/2592320)
      - Antonia Biggs' big study on harm caused by denying abortions.
- # Sources
  - ## Encyclopedias
    - 1. Wikipedia - "[Hydranencephaly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hydranencephaly)" Accessed 2025-11-08.
    - 2. Wikipedia - "[Hydrocephalus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hydrocephalus)" Accessed 2025-11-08.
    - 3. Wikipedia - "[Microcephaly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microcephaly)" Accessed 2025-11-08.
    - 4. Wikipedia - "[Microhydranencephaly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microhydranencephaly)" Accessed 2025-11-08.
  - ## Journals
    - 1. "[Deaths Associated With Pregnancy Outcome: A Record Linkage Study of Low Income Women*](https://www.afterabortion.org/research/DeathsAssociatedWithAbortion.pdf)" (August, 2002) by David C. Reardon, Philip G. Ney, Fritz Scheuren, Jesse Cougle, Priscilla K. Coleman, and Thomas W. Strahan, *Southern Medical Journal* Vol. 95, No. 8
    - 2. "[The Scourge: Moral Implications of Natural Embryo Loss](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/15265160802248146)" (May 23rd, 2007) by Toby Ord, *The American Journal of Bioethics*, Volume 8, Issue 7 [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1080/15265160802248146)
    - 3. "[Fatal flaws in a recent meta-analysis on abortion and mental health](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3646711/)" (November, 2012) by Julia R. Steinberg, James Trussell, Kelli Hall and Kate Guthrie, *Contraception*, 86(5):430-7 [DOI](doi.org/10.1016/j.contraception.2012.03.012) 
    - 4. "[Women’s Mental Health and Well-being 5 Years After Receiving or Being Denied an Abortion](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamapsychiatry/fullarticle/2592320)" (February, 2017) by M. Antonia Biggs, Ushma D. Upadhyay, Charles E. McCulloch, et al., *JAMA Psychiatry*, Vol. 74, No. 2 [DOI](http://dx.doi.org/10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2016.3478)
    - 5. "[Abortion legalization and childbearing in Mexico](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4929219/)" (June 1st, 2017) by Edith Y Gutierrez Vazquez and Emilio A Parrado, *Studies in Family Planning*, 47(2):113-128 [DOI](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1728-4465.2016.00060.x)
    - 6. "[The Turnaway Study: A Case of Self-Correction in Science Upended by Political Motivation and Unvetted Findings](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9247501/)" (June 17th, 2022) by Priscilla K. Coleman, *Frontiers in Psychology*, 13:905221 [DOI](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2022.905221)
    - 7. "[The Impact of Legal Abortion on Maternal Mortality](https://www.iza.org/publications/dp/15657/the-impact-of-legal-abortion-on-maternal-mortality)" (October, 2022) by Sherajun Monira Farin, Lauren Hoehn-Velasco, and Michael Pesko, *American Economic Journal: Economic Policy*
    - 8. "[Commentary: The Turnaway Study: A case of self-correction in science upended by political motivation and unvetted findings](https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/psychology/articles/10.3389/fpsyg.2022.1003116/full)" (December 1st, 2022) by Antonia Biggs, Diana Greene Foster, Heather Gould, et al., *Frontiers in Psychology*, Volume 13 [DOI](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2022.1003116)
    - 9. "[Events Leading to the Establishment of Pregnancy and Placental Formation: The Need to Fine-Tune the Nomenclature on Pregnancy and Gestation](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10607313/)" (October 31st, 2023) by Giuseppe Benagiano, et al., *International Journal of Molecular Sciences*, 24(20) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms242015420)
    - 10. "[Mental health and abortions among young women: time-varying unobserved heterogeneity, health behaviors, and risky decisions](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304407623002968)" (January 2024) by Lena Janys and Battina Siflinger, *Journal of Econometrics*, 238(1) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jeconom.2023.105580)
  - ## News Articles
    - 1. CNN - "[Police say 5 fetuses found in a DC home where anti-abortion activist is believed to live](https://www.cnn.com/2022/04/01/us/fetuses-found-dc-home)" (April 5th, 2022) by Mary Kay Mallonee and Rashard Rose.
    - 2. Digital Science - "[A conflict of interests – manipulating peer review or research as usual?](https://www.digital-science.com/blog/2023/01/a-conflict-of-interests/)" (January 11th, 2023) by Leslie McIntosh.
    - 3. ProPublica - "[Abortion Bans Have Delayed Emergency Medical Care. In Georgia, Experts Say This Mother’s Death Was Preventable.](https://www.propublica.org/article/georgia-abortion-ban-amber-thurman-death)" (September 16th, 2024) by Kavitha Surana.
  - ## Social Media
    - 3. YouTube - Family Research Council - "[Brandon Buell Shares the Story of His Son Jaxon - Born with Microhydranencephaly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8AXkUr6Owy8)" (April 8th, 2020)
    - 4. YouTube - Majesty of Reason - "[The Ethics of Abortion](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RKfa4vAAaPI)" (October 2nd, 2022)
    - 5. YouTube - Lila Rose - "[THIS is Why Contraception is Harmful w/ Dr Janet Smith | The Lila Rose Podcast E129](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8xHGy2Y0SSo)" (July 23rd, 2023)
    - 6. YouTube - Bart D. Ehrman - "[What Does the Bible Say about Abortion?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Agy88gCk1K0)" (September 10th, 2024)
    - 7. YouTube - Jubilee - "[Can 1 Pro-Lifer Survive 25 Pro-Abortion Activists? (feat. Lila Rose) | Surrounded](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3-ACDhvL2j0)" (January 12th, 2025)
    - 8. YouTube - Lila Rose - "[Lila Rose REACTS To Her Jubilee Debate Vs 25 Pro-Abortion Activists](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P2TbJsJfaLc)" (January 13th, 2025)
    - 9. YouTube - Lila Rose - "[DEBATE: Should Abortion Be Legal? | Lila Rose vs Dr. Mary Ann Franks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y2Eu8dHpqsI)" (February 13th, 2025)
  - ## Organizations
    - 1. *American Psychological Association* - "[Report of the APA Task Force on Mental Health and Abortion](https://www.apa.org/pi/women/programs/abortion/mental-health.pdf)" (2008)
    - 2. *Live Action* - "[Baby Charlie lived two hours after birth, but his life shares that every child is precious](https://www.liveaction.org/news/baby-charlie-lived-two-hours-after-birth-but-his-life-shares-that-every-child-is-precious)" (October 21st, 2015)
    - 3. *Health Economics Research Center* - "[The Impact of Abortion Legalization on Fertility and Maternal Mortality: New Evidence from Mexico](https://cinch.uni-due.de/fileadmin/fileupload/PRO-CINCH/Forschung/Working_Paper_Series/1602_CINCH-Series_clarke_muehlrad.pdf)" (2016)
    - 4. *Guttmacher* - "[Pregnancies and Pregnancy Desires at the State Level: Estimates for 2017 and Trends Since 2012](https://www.guttmacher.org/report/pregnancy-desires-and-pregnancies-state-level-estimates-2017#pregnancy-desire-categories)" (September, 2021)
  - ## Resources
    - 1. [BibleGateway](https://www.biblegateway.com/) - Accessed 2025-11-08.
- # Review
  - Do a better job at showcasing why her worldview leads to problems.
  - Load more emotional stories/anecdotes to build on arguments, such as women who've died due to new restrictive abortion laws.
  - Force her to take a stronger position on and differentiate corpses or vegetative state peoples.
#